First time the user interact with metakeyai it should go as follow:

The user download and install the program from a website, in linux they should be able to do sudo apt-get or yum, but also just downloading an appimage should work. In Mac the most 'standard' mac way should be working (keeping electron constraints in mind, if any)


First launch will not be different then any other launch except that in first launch lots of not established settings will be discovered and this will trigger pop ups for the user. A user that would have migrated it's own configs from another system would feel the launch as if everything was already in place.

This means that settings and database should be completely portable.

at every launch (in theory, just after system launch is over) because metakeyai is designed to be an always on app. the settings will be loaded and database connected to. The settings will be modular. The first settings the we will load are the one for the theme and visuals, so that we can straight away present ui in the style set (or created) by the user. We will then load the keyboard shortcut setting. For keyboard shortcuts and all other settings, metakeyai will not contain any hardcoded value in the codebase, upon shiping we will over a metakeyai default database, and settings. this will likely be in the download and install (by only if appropriate) could be fetched from a hosted file repository. In any case the shortcuts will be loaded / validated. If nothing about this settings (as with all other settins) the user will be shown a window to set there own (this is where they could set from our shortcut template suggestion) or they could set none and the only settings that would be saved for kb shortcut would be to not set it and not ask again (if they set that too). Next, we would be connectings to the clipboard database and provide a few quick stats and set the latest value to the clipboard and preload some clipboard tracks, attachemnts and recent clipboards. Next, we would load the whisper settings including prefered microphone, maybe frequent words/ prompt to help transcription, maybe code to adapt to the api format from the metakeyai format, model name, model list, provider (s) and their hotkeys. these could be set to be 'deduced' or fetch or hardcoded in the settings. Similarly for the echoes, settings for voice, provider(s), etc. When there are many it is because the user will be able to toggle easily between them during metakeyai usage. The setting are simple and follow symmetrical patterns across the app. similar set up for default llm vanilla spell is set with providers, keys, model name and so on an so forth, all in a symetrical way and with the possibility to leverage system env variables and values entered in the previous settings too, if openai and openai key was entered for whispers it can simply be used from dropdown menu in other settings steps as many providers provide for tts, stt and llm chat. In the end we load the runtimes set meaning there system paths and env and finally the spells and personnas.

There exist within most a advanced button/section to set defaults / recommended loading whatever we (metakeyai) prepare for the users, one day maybe even a market place. and  at this step we may load some statics config but we also may trigger script to, for example install ollama or python and then prepare the settings based on where we are put the runtime etc. Similarly for the settings there will be at some point a button so get to a theme creation assistan. again, similarly, but probably earlier there will be a place to manage, add, create, share, install, edit, spells and personna, which would simply be a ui to create the spells and personas files which would be in the settings for all next launching.



